Welcome back earlier we saw how useful variables could be where we can store values and then recall
them later on within our script.
So in this lesson we're going to look at arrays arrays actually give us the ability to hold multiple
values in one single variable.
So let's first of all let's set up a variable and I'm going to call it my array.
And initially it looks similar to what we were doing originally or is setting up variables but arrays
have one unique difference.
And that's the ability to hold multiple values within this one contained variable arrays can hold any
data type and to create an array.
So this isn't a literal array and this is the simplest and fastest way to create arrays.
So the way that we create that is we create a value just like we work with other variables.
And then here we use these square brackets.
And then the content inside of these square brackets this is where we hold all of that the items that
are contained within the array.
So they can be strings much as what we saw earlier with the data types.
They can also be numbers and they can also be boolean values.
So basically we've created an array and this array is going to have three values inside of it.
And this is the most common way to create arrays.
And again this is called alit literal array.
There's also
in javascript.
Another way to create arrays and that's using the array constructor.
So this is a little bit different and it's not as common.
So the way the format for this one is that we do the same thing where we set up a variable and let's
do this one my every one and this time we're going to set this up as a new array.
So this key word new is really important because we need to specify that this is a new object that we're
creating and the object that we're creating is going to be an array.
And then within the array values so notice it's the rounded brackets and you can then have the same
contents as we did with the literal array.
So again this one is not used as often.
You can also define arrays with no values.
If you don't have any default values you can add in values later on as well.
So we could do this where we do the my array and we can just specify that this is a new array and then
leave those leave the content and then the brackets blank.
And the same thing for the literal or literal array.
We can do the same thing where we can initiate an array and I'm going to give it three three and we
can simply have a blank value there.
So this also indicates that this now is going to be an array because remember what the variables we
look at the value which is held on the right hand side to determine the different types of values that
are being contained within there and the different types of variables that we're defining and setting
up.
So these are the two ways that we can set up arrays and this one up here the literal or way is the one
that's most commonly used and now that we see we've got a lot of different values that we can store
in here and we can literally store as probably pretty much as many values as we want to within an array.
There is a limit but it's a really large number it's something on the billions.
So we don't have to worry about ever running out of space within the array.
So the next thing that we need to do is have a way to recall this information.
So if I was to do something like console log and we'll take a look at what we can log out within when
we cancel log out.
The variable my array.
Let's go out to our browser will refresh the page and again make the console side a little bit bigger
there.
So we see that we get all three values are contained what we call back the my array variable name and
we see that we've got the contents in there we've got the string which is the first value the 100 which
is the next value.
And then we've got false which is the last value.
And we also see here on the left hand side there's numbers starting at zero.
And this is an important thing to know what that arrays do start at zero.
And they're known as what is called the Zero index.
So basically what that means is that array with an index of two is actually going to be the third item
in the array because we've got three there.
And we also see that we've got a length of three for the array and we are going to be looking at that
property later on as well with an upcoming lessons.
So now in order to recall some of the content that's contained within the array all we need to do is
reference the index value.
So if we want to recall the first item in the array What do you think that we do.
How do you think that we could recall that specifying the my array value.
And I'll give you a hint that we use the square brackets and within.
Here is where we place the index value of the item that we want to recall.
So to recall back string we would do my array do the square brackets and zero.
So now I want to go back and if I refresh it we see that we've got a value of string in there and we
could do the same thing for the other items in the array so we could return back the third item in the
array which is has an index of 2.
We can also return back to the second item which has an index of 1.
So in order to return any value we use the in C and this returns by the corresponding item within the
array.
So we have our way of retrieving information from the array and now we want I want to show you one way
to update the information within the array.
So if we do know the C number that we corresponds to the item that we want to update we can specify
that within our code where we can say my history and give an index number and then.
Now all we need to do.
Just like we do with any other variable we can assign any value we want into that array.
And now when we list out the tire array within our javascript we'll see that we've updated the value
successfully.
So let's go back out here and we'll refresh it.
So we see that now we've got string new value and false.
One other thing to note is that we are able to change different data types.
So just like with variables the items within the array they can take on any data type whatever is specified
when we're assigning those values to that particular item.
So in arrays are a great way to store a bunch of information grouping together and then having access
to it.
So what I want you to do is to create your own array.
Open up your editor go into the editor and define a new array and create a list of items that you like
to do.
So different tasks that you're looking to do and that's going to be the first step in what we're going
to be looking at in the next lesson.
Where are we going to do an actual exercise with that task list.
So go ahead create your task list and output it and put that task list using console log within your
browser console and take a closer look at how that content gets output and in the next lesson we're
going to be showing you how to do even more with that content that's contained within that array.
So that's coming up.